# fetal
##Abstract

Reduction of child mortality has been an issue in several of the United Nations' (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (UN) and is a key indicator of human progress. The UN expects that by 2030, countries end preventable deaths of newborns and children under 5 years of age, and reduce under-5 mortality to at least as low as 25 per 1,000 live births. Ethiopia is among countries that bear the highest burden of infant deaths. To avert this and other health problems, large-scale investment in primary healthcare and social services has been made by the country for the last decade. However, according to UN SDG report, there is still a need of further effort in for the reduction of child mortality rate. The vast majority of child and maternal mortality (94%) occurred in low-resource settings, and most of it could have been prevented with early assessment of fetal health followed by proper risk management. 
In this study Cardiotocography (CTG) signal, which is a simple and cost accessible option to assess fetal health, has been used to detect fetal health status using machine learning (ML) technique. Different CTG features including signal acceleration, prologued deceleration, signal variability and histogram data were extracted and analyzed from a total of 2000 CTG signal collected data to train different ML models for classification of fetal status as normal, suspected, and pathological. The trained models were tested on 20% of the dataset and an accuracy of 91.3% was found using random forest classifier. A user-friendly application was also developed to enable physicians easily upload the CTG signal data and get system prediction about the fetal health status. Based on our experimental results, we anticipate that the developed tool has the potential to assist health care professionals to identify health status of unborn child and to make an informed clinical decision.
